Plotting coastlines and borders is handled by pygmt.Figure.coast. By The shorelines are divided in 4 levels: Coastline, lakeshore, island in lake shore, lake in island in lake shore. 
we can specify which level you want to plot by passing the level number and a GMT pen configuration. For example, to plot only coastlines with 0.5p thickness and black lines.The coastline database comes with 5 resolutions. The resolution drops by 80% between levels:
Use the land and water parameters to specify a fill color for land and water bodies. The colors can be given by name or hex codes. Many of the plotting methods take the region parameter, which sets the area that will be shown in the figure.A string of coordinates can be passed to region, in the form of xmin/xmax/ymin/ymax.
The coordinates can be passed to region as a list, in the form of [xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax].
GMT shines when it comes to plotting data on a map. We can use some sample data that is packaged with GMT. PyGMT provides access to these datasets through the pygmt.datasets package. For example, let’s load the sample dataset of tsunami generating earthquakes around Japan using pygmt.datasets.load_sample_data. The data are loaded as a pandas.DataFrame.
We’ll use the pygmt.Figure.plot method to plot circles on the earthquake epicenters.
We can also map the colors of the markers to the depths by passing an array to the fill parameter and providing a colormap name (cmap). We can even use the new matplotlib colormap “viridis”. Here, we first create a continuous colormap ranging from the minimum depth to the maximum depth of the earthquakes using pygmt.makecpt, then set cmap=True in pygmt.Figure.plot to use the colormap. At the end of the plot, we also plot a colorbar showing the colormap used in the plot.
Plotting a map of Earth relief can use the data accessed by the pygmt.datasets.load_earth_relief function. The data can then be plotted using the pygmt.Figure.grdimage method.The pygmt.Figure.grdimage method takes the grid input to create a figure. It creates and applies a color palette to the figure based upon the z-values of the data. By default, it plots the map with the turbo CPT, an equidistant cylindrical projection, and with no frame.
The pygmt.Figure.colorbar method displays the CPT and the associated Z-values of the figure, and by default uses the same CPT set by the cmap parameter for pygmt.Figure.grdimage. The frame parameter for pygmt.Figure.colorbar can be used to set the axis intervals and labels. A list is used to pass multiple arguments to frame. In the example below, "a2500" sets the axis interval to 2,500, "x+lElevation" sets the x-axis label, and "y+lm" sets the y-axis label.
